ens-primary-name/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: ens-primary-name
description: Set your primary ENS name on Base and other L2s. Use when user wants to set their ENS name, configure reverse resolution, set primary name, or make their address resolve to an ENS name. Supports Base, Arbitrum, Optimism, and Ethereum mainnet.
---

# ENS Primary Name

Set your primary ENS name on Base and other L2 chains via the ENS Reverse Registrar.

A primary name creates a bi-directional link:
- **Forward:** `name.eth` → `0x1234...` (set in ENS resolver)
- **Reverse:** `0x1234...` → `name.eth` (set via this skill)

## Requirements

### Required: Transaction Signing

This skill requires a way to sign and submit transactions. It looks for the **bankr skill** which provides wallet functionality via the Bankr API.

**If you don't have bankr installed:**

1. Install from: https://github.com/BankrBot/openclaw-skills (bankr skill)
2. Or modify the scripts to use your own transaction submission method

The scripts call bankr.sh with a prompt like:
```
Submit this transaction: {"to": "0x...", "data": "0x...", "value": "0", "chainId": 8453}
```

You can replace the `find_bankr()` function in each script with your own wallet/signer.

### Required: Node.js

Scripts use Node.js with `viem` for ENS namehash calculation and ABI encoding.

```bash
npm install -g viem
```

## Quick Start

```bash
# Set primary name on Base
./scripts/set-primary.sh myname.eth

# Set on specific chain
./scripts/set-primary.sh myname.eth arbitrum

# Verify primary name is set
./scripts/verify-primary.sh 0x1234... base

# Set avatar (L1 only)
./scripts/set-avatar.sh myname.eth https://example.com/avatar.png
```

## Supported Chains

| Chain | Reverse Registrar |
|-------|-------------------|
| Base | `0x0000000000D8e504002cC26E3Ec46D81971C1664` |
| Arbitrum | `0x0000000000D8e504002cC26E3Ec46D81971C1664` |
| Optimism | `0x0000000000D8e504002cC26E3Ec46D81971C1664` |
| Ethereum | `0x283F227c4Bd38ecE252C4Ae7ECE650B0e913f1f9` |

## Prerequisites

1. **Own or control an ENS name** - The name must be registered
2. **Forward resolution configured** - The name must resolve to your address
3. **Native tokens for gas** - ETH on the target chain

## How It Works

1. Checks forward resolution exists (name → address)
2. Warns if chain-specific address is not set
3. Encodes `setName(string)` calldata
4. Submits transaction to the Reverse Registrar
5. Verifies the primary name is correctly set

## Verification

The skill automatically verifies after setting. You can also verify manually:

```bash
./scripts/verify-primary.sh 0xYourAddress base
```

Output:
```
✅ Reverse record: 0x1234... → myname.eth
✅ Forward resolution: myname.eth → 0x1234...
🎉 PRIMARY NAME VERIFIED: myname.eth
```

## Setting Avatars

```bash
# Set avatar (requires L1 transaction + ETH for gas)
./scripts/set-avatar.sh myname.eth https://example.com/avatar.png
```

**Supported avatar formats:**
- HTTPS: `https://example.com/image.png`
- IPFS: `ipfs://QmHash`
- NFT: `eip155:1/erc721:0xbc4ca.../1234`

**Note:** Avatars are text records stored on Ethereum mainnet. The script automatically looks up the resolver for your ENS name (works with both public and custom resolvers).

## Troubleshooting

| Issue | Solution |
|-------|----------|
| "Transaction reverted" | Ensure the ENS name resolves to your address |
| "Name not showing" | Forward resolution may not be set for that chain's cointype |
| "Not authorized" | You must call from the address the name resolves to |
| "bankr.sh not found" | Install bankr skill or modify scripts to use your signer |
| "Chain-specific address not set" | Set the address for the target chain via app.ens.domains |
| "Could not find resolver" | Ensure the ENS name exists and has a resolver set |

## Customization

### Using a Different Wallet/Signer

Replace the `find_bankr()` function in the scripts:

```bash
# Example: use cast (foundry) instead
send_tx() {
  local to="$1" data="$2" chain_id="$3"
  cast send "$to" --data "$data" --rpc-url "https://..." --private-key "$PRIVATE_KEY"
}
```

## Links

- ENS Docs: https://docs.ens.domains/web/reverse
- ENS App: https://app.ens.domains
- Primary Names UI: https://primary.ens.domains
- Bankr Skill: https://github.com/BankrBot/openclaw-skills

Commit message:

Migrate skills from bash scripts to Bankr CLI
- Remove bankr/scripts/ (curl-based submit/poll/cancel) — replaced by `bankr prompt`, `bankr status`, `bankr cancel` CLI commands
- Update 8 scripts across endaoment, ens-primary-name, erc-8004, and veil to use `bankr prompt` instead of hardcoded script paths
- Expand SKILL.md LLM Gateway section with model table, credits, OpenClaw setup, and Anthropic API mode

ens-primary-name/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: ens-primary-name
description: Set your primary ENS name on Base and other L2s. Use when user wants to set their ENS name, configure reverse resolution, set primary name, or make their address resolve to an ENS name. Supports Base, Arbitrum, Optimism, and Ethereum mainnet.
---

# ENS Primary Name

Set your primary ENS name on Base and other L2 chains via the ENS Reverse Registrar.

A primary name creates a bi-directional link:
- **Forward:** `name.eth` → `0x1234...` (set in ENS resolver)
- **Reverse:** `0x1234...` → `name.eth` (set via this skill)

## Requirements

### Required: Bankr CLI

This skill requires the **Bankr CLI** for transaction signing:

```bash
bun install -g @bankr/cli
bankr login
```

The scripts use `bankr prompt` to submit transactions like:
```
Submit this transaction: {"to": "0x...", "data": "0x...", "value": "0", "chainId": 8453}
```

### Required: Node.js

Scripts use Node.js with `viem` for ENS namehash calculation and ABI encoding.

```bash
npm install -g viem
```

## Quick Start

```bash
# Set primary name on Base
./scripts/set-primary.sh myname.eth

# Set on specific chain
./scripts/set-primary.sh myname.eth arbitrum

# Verify primary name is set
./scripts/verify-primary.sh 0x1234... base

# Set avatar (L1 only)
./scripts/set-avatar.sh myname.eth https://example.com/avatar.png
```

## Supported Chains

| Chain | Reverse Registrar |
|-------|-------------------|
| Base | `0x0000000000D8e504002cC26E3Ec46D81971C1664` |
| Arbitrum | `0x0000000000D8e504002cC26E3Ec46D81971C1664` |
| Optimism | `0x0000000000D8e504002cC26E3Ec46D81971C1664` |
| Ethereum | `0x283F227c4Bd38ecE252C4Ae7ECE650B0e913f1f9` |

## Prerequisites

1. **Own or control an ENS name** - The name must be registered
2. **Forward resolution configured** - The name must resolve to your address
3. **Native tokens for gas** - ETH on the target chain

## How It Works

1. Checks forward resolution exists (name → address)
2. Warns if chain-specific address is not set
3. Encodes `setName(string)` calldata
4. Submits transaction to the Reverse Registrar
5. Verifies the primary name is correctly set

## Verification

The skill automatically verifies after setting. You can also verify manually:

```bash
./scripts/verify-primary.sh 0xYourAddress base
```

Output:
```
✅ Reverse record: 0x1234... → myname.eth
✅ Forward resolution: myname.eth → 0x1234...
🎉 PRIMARY NAME VERIFIED: myname.eth
```

## Setting Avatars

```bash
# Set avatar (requires L1 transaction + ETH for gas)
./scripts/set-avatar.sh myname.eth https://example.com/avatar.png
```

**Supported avatar formats:**
- HTTPS: `https://example.com/image.png`
- IPFS: `ipfs://QmHash`
- NFT: `eip155:1/erc721:0xbc4ca.../1234`

**Note:** Avatars are text records stored on Ethereum mainnet. The script automatically looks up the resolver for your ENS name (works with both public and custom resolvers).

## Troubleshooting

| Issue | Solution |
|-------|----------|
| "Transaction reverted" | Ensure the ENS name resolves to your address |
| "Name not showing" | Forward resolution may not be set for that chain's cointype |
| "Not authorized" | You must call from the address the name resolves to |
| "Bankr CLI not found" | Install with `bun install -g @bankr/cli && bankr login` |
| "Chain-specific address not set" | Set the address for the target chain via app.ens.domains |
| "Could not find resolver" | Ensure the ENS name exists and has a resolver set |

## Links

- ENS Docs: https://docs.ens.domains/web/reverse
- ENS App: https://app.ens.domains
- Primary Names UI: https://primary.ens.domains
- Bankr CLI: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@bankr/cli
